Okay let's say implicit type conversion in action first I declare a byte.
Call it B.
Answer that one.
And I declare an integer and set it to be.
Again to recap a byte is only one byte and an integer is four bytes.
So we can copy me to I without data loss and as you see there is no compile time error here.
Let's put the eye on the console so cancel that right line and we pass on here.
Note that as I typed console the right line.
My resharpen plug in automatically.
I did this using System statement on the top again.
If you don't have the sharper You need to go manually add this statement here you run the application
by control on F5.
So we got on the console.
Now let's reverse this and see what happens.
So I'm going to get rid of this code here.
Control X control X control x.
First I declare an integer.
Set it to 1 then declare a byte and try to copy I to be.
We immediately got this red underline here.
If you hover the mouse here that tooltip says cannot convert source type into the target type bytes
.
Sometimes this error might be in a different file which is not open in visual studio here.
So you may see the error when compiling the application.
Let's simulate that.
So I compile this application by Control shift and B which stands for build.
So here is the error cannot implicitly convert type into two byte an explicit conversion exists.
Are you missing a cast.
So now you understand the concept of implicit versus explicit type conversion.
So what we need to do here is to do a cast.
So we cast an integer to a bite.
In this case no data loss will happen because the value is small enough to be stored in one byte.
Let's put me on the console console the right line be run the application.
So everything is good.
But let's see what happens if we said I to let's say thousand we cannot store the number of thousand
in a byte.
The maximum we can store in a byte is 255.
So if you run the application now we got to 32 because some of the bits were lost and this is the reason
that C-Sharp compiler knows that there is a chance for data loss and it forces you to explicitly specify
the cast.
Sometimes you know that despite the differences in data types there is no chance of data loss like in
the last example where I was set to 1.
In those cases we can safely apply a cast.
OK let's take a look at non-compatible types.
So let's clean up this code.
I start by declaring a string is called a number and set it to 1 2 3 4.
Just recapping from The Last Lecture note that here I could declare these with the very key words and
C# compiler automatically detects that this is a string.
So a number will be defined as a string.
And we can see that by hovering the mouse here it says system that string.
Now let's say we want to convert that to a number.
If I declare an integer like I I cannot cast that number to an integer because they're not compatible
.
Let's take a look at the error cannot cast expression of type string to type int.
So if you see that error that's the time when you need to use the converse class.
So we type in convert dot.
Take a look at this method to here to bite to char to in 16 in 32 and many other methods here.
So let's convert that to an integer which is 32 and past number as an argument here.
Now let's print out the eye on the con.
.
Run the application.
So it is one two three four.
All good.
But let's see what happens if instead I declared this as a byte.
And here we need to use convert dot to bite.
And here with display being on the console a byte does not have enough storage to store the value of
1234.
So when we run the application now
application crashed you can sell this here.
And here's the exception exception is Dartmouth's frameworks error reporting mechanism.
It's an advanced topic and have covered it in detail in my C-Sharp advanced course.
But in this video I will briefly show you how to handle exceptions.
So here it says unhandled exception the type of exception is system the overflow exception which means
we try to store a value that goes too large or too small for a byte.
So each exception or error as a type in this case the overflow exception and has a message value was
either too large or too small for an unsigned byte.
Sometimes the exception messages are friendly enough that are easy to understand.
Sometimes they're a little bit tricky.
And the best way to work out what is going wrong is to jump on Google and search for the error.
And there's pretty much always a stack overflow page that explains that.
Now let's discard that.
Let's see how to handle the exception here.
So the exception happened during conversion of that string to bite what we need to do here is to wrap
these few statements with a try catch block.
Let's see how it works.
So I just typed try and press the enter and visual studio automatically generated this block for me
.
Again this is what we call a code snippet.
Let me do this I show you one more time.
So try a serious try here and they Intellisense and this icon represents a code snippet.
So if I press enter or tab you automatically get this code block.
So what I'm going to do now is to move this code into a try block and the catch block gets an exception
by default visual studio as this throw here.
Don't worry about it just delete it again.
I will explain it in detail in my C-Sharp advanced course.
For now let's see what's going on here.
So the code that you put inside the try block will be somehow monitored and if an exception happens
this block will be executed.
This prevents your application from crashing.
The reason our application crashed earlier was because we did not handle the exception.
So if you don't handle exception the exception will be propagated to the Dartmouth runtime and the runtime
mechanism is to stop your application and display the error.
Here we can handle the exception and that would prevent exception from being propagated to the runtime
.
So instead we can display a friendly message to the user saying for example console that right line
The number could not be converted to a byte.
Now let's run the application again.
See we got that friendly message and application didn't crash.
So what I want you to take away from this lecture is this Convery class.
Works pretty well in most cases but in cases where the source type cannot be converted to the target
type there is a chance for exception.
And you need to be aware of that and what you need to do is to wrap this block of code with try catch
.
Let's take a look at one more example before we finish this lecture.
Let's remove this and instead define a string.
Call it as you are and set it to true.
We can use the converse class to convert that value to a boolean so it will be a Cool's convert that
to boolean.
And we passed that SDR.
Here again in this example the string and bool are not compatible and that's why we cannot use explicit
casting.
So here we are using the converse class.
Can display be on the console.
Let's run the application.
So the truth string was successfully converted to a boolean value.
OK that's pretty much it for this lecture.
Before I finish I just need to emphasize something here that throughout this course during early lectures
you may see me using some short variable names like B or SD are here.
That's purely for demonstration and keeping things simple and in building real world applications.
We should really avoid naming our variables a b c SDR.
It's not really a good practice.
The only exception is when we get two loops which you will see later in this course in four loops.
We use counter variables and we call them I or J.
It's a common convention.
Now here we are just starting to learn C-Sharp and it's really impossible for me to demonstrate building
a real world application because we're just covering the basics or alphabets.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture and thank you for watching